---
ID: 30
post_title: Week 2 Blog Posting Structure Notes
author: Colin Madland
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://create.twu.ca/ldrs501-su18/2018/02/23/unit-2-notes/
published: true
post_date: 2018-02-23 01:07:23
---
<h2>Week 2 Blog Posting Structure Notes</h2>
<h3>Posting Structures</h3>
<strong>Blog 1 – Week 2</strong>

The posting pattern for online discussion will use a compacted online posting pattern:
<ul>
 	<li>Blog Posts are limited to a three post maximum per DQ Discussion Week.</li>
 	<li>Blog Posts in Week 2 are limited to the following posting pattern:</li>
 	<li>All posts will require substantive response* to ALL questions asked in the Blog (Three [3] for Week 2]) in the following pattern.</li>
</ul>
<strong>Blog 1 – Week 2 - POST LEADERS</strong>
<ul>
 	<li>First Blog posting is limited to the first members of the cohort <span style="float: none;background-color: transparent;color: #333333;cursor: text;font-family: -apple-system,BlinkMacSystemFont,'Segoe UI',Roboto,Oxygen-Sans,Ubuntu,Cantarell,'Helvetica Neue',sans-serif;font-size: 16px;font-style: normal;font-variant: normal;font-weight: 400;letter-spacing: normal;text-align: left;text-decoration: none;text-indent: 0px">(2 for classes of &lt;6; 3 for classes 7-11; 4 for classes &gt;11) </span>who post a substantive response to the questions posed AFTER 6 am of Day 1 of Week 2.</li>
 	<li>First posters (2 for classes of &lt;6; 3 for classes 7-11; 4 for classes &gt;11) become the post leaders for the week and must post their first response to the questions posed fully and completely by Monday 23:59:59 of Week 2.</li>
 	<li>Post leaders <span style="float: none;background-color: transparent;color: #333333;cursor: text;font-family: -apple-system,BlinkMacSystemFont,'Segoe UI',Roboto,Oxygen-Sans,Ubuntu,Cantarell,'Helvetica Neue',sans-serif;font-size: 16px;font-style: normal;font-variant: normal;font-weight: 400;letter-spacing: normal;text-align: left;text-decoration: none;text-indent: 0px">(2 for classes of &lt;6; 3 for classes 7-11; 4 for classes &gt;11) </span>will then post one substantive response* in responding to posts from other cohort members to their First Post to the Blog for Thursday @ 23:59:59 of Week 2.</li>
 	<li>Post leaders will also post one substantive response* to one other Post leader's Blog thread outside their own by Saturday midnight of Week 2.</li>
</ul>
<strong>Blog 1 – Week 2 - ALL OTHER POSTS FOR WEEK 2</strong>
<ul>
 	<li>All other cohort posts for Week 2 will provide a substantive response* to 1 post leader and 2 other posts from cohort members (3 postings total) between Tuesday @ 23:59:59 and Saturday @ 23:59:59 of Week 2</li>
</ul>
<h3>Substantive Responses and Participation  ...</h3>
<span style="text-decoration: underline"><strong>Involves</strong></span> the following:
<ul>
 	<li>Shows deep higher order processing of relevant ideas.</li>
 	<li>Provides tremendous opportunity to build upon one another’s knowledge, insights, and experience.</li>
 	<li>Allows all members of the cohort to collaborate effectively regarding ideas shared in the forum.</li>
 	<li>Will, at times, lead to respectful challenging each other’s perceptions, ideas and assumptions.</li>
 	<li>Provides rich dialogue in the learning process.</li>
 	<li>Provides the opportunity for building a supportive subculture of encouragement for one another through shared ideas and challenging discourse.</li>
 	<li>Allows participants to focus on addressing the questions at hand fully and completely. Disagreeing and challenging one another based on the material under review and investigation so as to stimulate and edifying one another through the pure pursuit of the best information within the best framework of discussion – forum discussion questions (DQ).</li>
</ul>
<span style="text-decoration: underline"><strong>May</strong></span> include <em>(among other things)</em>:
<ul>
 	<li>Providing and developing a new thought, idea, or perspective.</li>
 	<li>Citing an experience or example of what we are learning and showing how it applies.</li>
 	<li>Adding a new twist on a perspective.</li>
 	<li>Critically reflecting on an idea/concept.</li>
 	<li>Questioning or challenging a principle/perspective and giving reasons for your questioning</li>
</ul>
Is <span style="text-decoration: underline"><strong>NOT</strong></span>:
<ul>
 	<li>Very basic comments such as “I agree” or “I disagree.”</li>
 	<li>Restating what has already been said (unless there is a direct purpose in doing so).</li>
 	<li>Disrespectfully disagreeing.</li>
 	<li>Pat answers that are not thought - provoking</li>
</ul>
Below are <span style="text-decoration: underline">examples</span> of how to stimulate <span style="text-decoration: underline">your</span> thinking and the thinking of <span style="text-decoration: underline">others</span> when looking for new and unique approaches to a line of study, questioning or argumentation.
<ul>
 	<li>What would happen if we looked at this from this perspective...?</li>
 	<li>Other times it may be helpful to ignore the obvious and look into the less obvious answers to the question...</li>
 	<li>My consideration leads me to believe that...what is your experience with this?</li>
 	<li>You might want to approach this from this point of view...</li>
 	<li>Is it possible that...</li>
 	<li>Would you consider a different view...?</li>
 	<li>Maybe...</li>
 	<li>Possibly...</li>
 	<li>Sometimes...</li>
 	<li>I'm wondering if...</li>
 	<li>Do you think...</li>
 	<li>Perhaps…</li>
</ul>
&nbsp;